From: Śrī Caitanya-caritāmṛta (Madhya-līlā 19.138, 144–148)

ei-mata brahmāṇḍa, bhari’ ananta jīva-gaṇa
caurāśī-lakṣa yonīte, karaye bhramaṇa         ... (ei-mata)

tāre madhye ‘sthāvara’, ‘jaṅgama’—dui bheda
jaṅgame tiryak-jala, sthalacara-vibheda       ... (ei-mata)

tāra madhye manuṣya, jāti ati alpatara
tāra madhye mleccha, pulinda, bauddha, śabara ... (ei-mata)

veda-niṣṭha-madhye, ardheka veda ‘mukhe’ māne
veda-niṣiddha pāpa, kare dharma nāhi gaṇe     ... (ei-mata)

dharmācāri-madhye, bahuta ‘karma-niṣṭha’
koṭi-karma-niṣṭha, madhye eka ‘jñānī’ śreṣṭha ... (ei-mata)

koṭi-jñānī-madhye, haya eka-jana ‘mukta’
koṭi-mukta-madhye durlabha, eka kṛṣṇa-bhakta  ... (ei-mata)

---------- Meaning ----------------

This universe is teeming with countless billions of living entities.

They are of two kinds: those that cannot move about (sthāvara), such as trees,
and those that can move about (jaṅgama), such as humans, birds and
animals. 

Among the 8.4 million species of living entities, which include
aquatic life, beasts and so on, there are very few kinds of human beings.

And even among humankind, there are races and groups like mlecchas
(uncivilized persons), pulindas (primitive clans), Buddhists, and śabaras
(mountain tribesmen) who do not abide by the Vedas. 

Among the remaining members of humankind who do acknowledge the Vedas, half
pay lip service to them but fail to carry out the injunctions of the Vedas in
regard to dharma (religion), karma (prescribed occupational duties) and
so on. Rather, they engage in sinful acts opposed to the Vedas. 

Among the remaining people who do undertake the practice of veda-dharma, most
are intent on performing karma (fruitive acts), such as yajñas. Among
tens of millions of such humans who are devoted to karma, there is hardly
one jñānī. 

And again, among tens of millions of jñānīs, it is a rare person
indeed who reaches the stage of perfection and becomes free of bodily
identification and so on. Among tens of millions of such liberated persons,
one rare individual will happen to be a devotee of Kṛṣṇa!