harinām, tuwā aneka swarūpa
yaśodā-nandana, ānanda-vardhana,
nanda-tanaya rasa-kūpa
 
pūtanā-ghātana, trnāvarta-hana,
śakata-bhanjana gopāla
muralī-vadana, agha-baka-mardana,
govardhana-dhārī rākhāla
 
keśī-mardana, brahma-vimohana,
surapati-darpa-vināśī
arista-pātana, gopī-vimohana,
jamunā-pulina-vilāsī
 
rādhikā-ranjana, rāsa-rasāyana,
rādhā-kunda-kunja-bihārī
rāma, krsna, hari, mādhava, narahari,
matsyādi-gana-avatārī
 
govinda, vāmana, śrī-madhusūdana,
yādava-candra, vanamālī
kāliya-śātana, gokula-ranjana,
rādhā-bhajana-sukha-śālī
 
ityādika nām, swarūpe prakām,
bāduka mora rati rāge
rūpa-swarūpa-pada, jāni’ nija sampada,
bhaktivinoda dhori’ māge
 

...............Meaning..................
1) O Harinama, You possess unlimited forms, such as the beloved son 
of Mother Yasoda, the increaser of the bliss of Gokula, the son of Nanda, 
and the reservoir of all transcendental mellows.
 
2) You are the slayer of the demons Putana and Trnavarta, the breaker 
of the cart, the protector of the cows, the player of the flute, 
the destroyer of the demons Agha and Baka, the holder of Govardhan Hill, 
and You are a cowherd boy.
 
3) You destroyed the Kesi demon, bewildered Lord Brahma, and broke 
the pride of Indra, king of Heaven. You are the destroyer of Aristasura, 
the enchanter of all the young girls of Gokula, and You sport along the 
sandy banks of the river Yamuna.
 
4) You delight Srimati Radhika and give life to the rasa dance. 
You sport in the groves near Radha Kunda, performing a variety of pastimes. 
You are the reservoir of pleasure, attractive to every living being. 
You remove all inauspiciousness and are the husband of the goddess of fortune. 
You are the source of all incarnations such as Lord Nrsimha, the half-man 
half-lion incarnation and Matsya, the fish avatara.
 
5) O Harinam, You are pleasing to the cows, land and senses. 
You are the dwarf brahmana incarnation Vamana and the slayer of the 
demon Madhu. You are the moon of the Yadu dynasty and always wear 
beautiful garlands of fresh forest flowers. You are the destroyer of the 
Kaliya serpent, the delighter of Gokula and You rejoice in the worship 
of Srimati Radharani.
 
6) Thakura Bhaktivinoda, understanding Your glories, clasps the lotus 
feet of Rupa Goswami and Swarup Damodar Goswami and prays, “O Harinam, 
according to Your sweet will You are manifest in all these forms and 
in many others also. Please let them increase my love and attachment for You.”