jaya radhe krishna govinda gopala, nanda dulala
yashoda dulala, jaya jaya deva hare  

jaya jaya deva hare, jaya jaya deva hare,

(1)
śrita-kamalā-kuca-maṇḍala dhṛta-kuṇḍala e
kalita-lalita-vana-māla jaya jaya deva hare

(2)
dina-maṇi-maṇḍala-maṇḍana bhava-khaṇḍana e
muni-jana-mānasa-haḿsa jaya jaya deva hare

(3)
kāliya-viṣa-dhara-gañjana jana-rañjana e
yadukula-nalina-dineśa jaya jaya deva hare

(4)
madhu-mura-naraka-vināśana  garuḍāsana e
sura-kula-keli-nidāna jaya jaya deva hare

(5)
amala-kamala-dala-locana  bhava-mocana e
tribhuvana-bhuvana-nidhāna jaya jaya deva hare

(6)
janaka-sutā-kṛta-bhūṣaṇa jita-dūṣaṇa e
samara-śamita-daśa-kaṇṭha jaya jaya deva hare

(7)
abhinava-jala-dhara-sundara dhṛta-mandara e
śrī-mukha-candra-cakora jaya jaya deva hare

(8)
tava caraṇaḿ praṇatā vayam iti bhāvaya e
kuru kuśalaḿ praṇateṣu jaya jaya deva hare

(9)
śrī-jayadeva-kaver idaḿ kurute mudam e
mańgalam ujjvala-gītaḿ jaya jaya deva hare

-------------------------------------------------

1) Glories, glories to Lord Hari, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, who rests on the breasts of the Goddess of Fortune, who is adorned with jeweled earrings, and wears a garland of forest flowers!

2) The Lord's face shines like the sun globe. He destroys the cycle of birth and death, and rests in the lakes of the swan-like saintly persons. Glories! Glories to Lord Sri Hari, Supreme Personality of Godhead!

3) O Supreme Personality of Godhead who destroyed the poisonous serpent, Kaliya! You are the beloved of all living entities, and the sun in the galaxy of the Yadu dynasty. Glories! Glories to Lord Sri Hari!

4) O Supreme Personality of Godhead, destroyer of the demons Madhu, Mura and Narakasura! You are seated on Garuda, and You are the source of joy for the demigods! All glories! Glories to Hari!

5) O Supreme Personality of Godhead, Your eyes are like spotless lotus petals, You destroy the cycle of birth and death. You are the treasure mine of the three worlds. All glories! Glories to Lord Hari!

6) O Supreme Personality of Godhead (in the incarnation of Lord Ramacandra), as the gem of the daughter of Janaka (Sita devi), You were victorious over the demon, Dusana, and You defeated the ten-headed demon, Ravana, in battle. All glories! Glories to Lord Hari!

7) O Supreme Personality of Godhead, whose complexion is like a fresh monsoon cloud, Who lifted Govardhana Hill, and Srimati Radharani is like a cakora bird who is nourished by drinking the light of Your moonlike face. Glories! Glories to Lord Hari!

8) O Supreme Personality of Godhead, we offer my humble obeisances at Your lotus feet. Please bestow auspiciousness to those who offer obeisances to You! Glories! Glories to Lord Sri Hari!

9) The poem of Sri Jayadeva brings transcendental happiness to all. The is an ever-effulgent and auspicious song (Mangala gitam). All glories! All glories to Lord Sri Hari, the Supreme Personality of Godhead!
