(1)
deva-siddha-mukta-yukta-bhakta-vṛnda-vanditaḿ
pāpa-tāpa-dāva-dāha-dagdha-duḥkha-khaṇḍitam
kṛṣṇa-nāma-sīdhu-dhāma-dhanya-dāna-sāgaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(2)
svarṇa-koṭi-darpaṇābha-deha-varṇa-gauravaḿ
padma-pārijāta-gandha-vanditāńga-saurabham
koṭi-kāma-mūrcchitāńghri-rūpa-rāsa-rańgaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(3)
prema-nāma-dāna-janya-pañca-tattvakātmakaḿ
sāńga-divya-pārṣadāstra-vaibhavāvatārakam
śyāma-gaura-nāma-gāna-nṛtya-matta-nāgaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(4)
śānti-puryadhīśa-kalyadharma-duḥkha-duḥsahaḿ
jīva-duḥkha-hāna-bhakta-saukhyadāna-vigraham
kalyaghaugha-nāśa-kṛṣṇa-nāma-sīdhu-sañcaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(5)
dvīpa-navya-gāńga-bańga-janma-karma-darśitaḿ
śrīnivāsa-vāsa-dhanya-nāma-rāsa-harṣitam
śrī haripriyeśa-pūjyadhī-śacī-purandaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(6)
śrī śacī-dulāla-bālya-bāla-sańga-cancalaḿ
ākumāra-sarva-śāstra-dakṣa-tarka-mańgalam
chātra-sańga-rańga-digjigīṣu-darpa-saḿharaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(7)
varjya-pātra-sārameya-sarpa-sańga-khelanaḿ
skandha-vāhi-caura-tīrtha-vipra-citra-līlanam
kṛṣṇa-nāma-mātra-bālya-kopa-śānti saukaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(8)
snāna-gāńga-vāri-bāla-sańga-rańga-khelanaḿ
bālikādi-pārihāsya-bhańgi-bālya-līlanam
kūta-tarka-chātra-śikṣakādi-vāda-tatparaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(9)
śrī nimai-paṇḍiteti-nāma-deśa-vanditaḿ
navya-tarka-dakṣa-lakṣa-dambhi-dambha-khaṇḍitam
sthāpitārtha-khaṇḍa-khaṇḍa-khaṇḍitārtha-sambharaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(10)
śloka-gāńga-vandanārtha-digjigīṣu-bhāṣitaḿ
vyatyalańkṛtādi-doṣa-tarkitārtha-dūṣitam
dhvasta-yukti-ruddha-buddhi-datta-dhīmadādaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(11)
sūtra-vṛtti-ṭippanīṣṭa-sūkṣma-vācanādbhutaḿ
dhātu-mātra-kṛṣṇa-śakti-sarva-viśva-sambhṛtam
ruddha-buddhi-paṇḍitaugha-nānya-yukti-nirdharaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(12)
kṛṣṇa-dṛṣṭi-pāta-hetu-śavdakārtha-yojanaḿ
sphoṭa-vāda-śṛńkhalaika-bhitti-kṛṣṇa-bīkṣaṇam
sthūla-sūkṣma-mūla-lakṣya-kṛṣṇa-saukhya-sambharaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(13)
prema-rańga-pāṭha-bhańga-chātra-kāku-kātaraḿ
chātra-sańga-hasta-tāla-kīrtanādya-sañcaram
kṛṣṇa-nāma-sīdhu-sindhu-magna-dik-carācaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(14)
ārya-dharma-pāla-labdha-dīkṣa-kṛṣṇa-kīrtanaḿ
lakṣa-lakṣa-bhakta-gīta-vādya-divya-nartanam
dharma-karma-nāśa-dasyu-duṣṭa-duṣkrṭoddharaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(15)
mleccha-rāja-nāma-bādha-bhakta-bhīti-bhañjanaḿ
lakṣa-lakṣa-dīpa-naiśa-koṭi-kaṇṭha-kīrtanam
śrī-mṛdańga-tāla-vādya-nṛtya-kāji-nistaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(16)
lakṣa-locanāśru-varṣa-harṣa-keśa-kartanaḿ
koṭi-kaṇṭha-kṛṣṇa-kīrtanādhya-daṇḍa-dhāranam
nyāsi-veśa-sarva-deśa-hā-hutāśa-kātaraḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(17)
śrī-yatīśa-bhakta-veśa-rāḍha-deśa-cāranaḿ
kṛṣṇa-caitanyākhya-kṛṣṇa-nāma-jīva-tāranam
bhāva-vibhramātma-matta-dhāvamāna-bhūdharaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
 
(18)
śrī-gadādharādi-nityānanda-sańga-vardhanaḿ
advayākhya-bhakta-mukhya-vāñchitārtha-sādhanam
kṣetravāsa-sābhilāṣa-mātṛtoṣa-tatparaḿ
prema-dhāma-devam eva naumi gaura-sundaram
....................

1) All glories, all glories unto my golden Lord Gaurasundara the beautiful, the divine abode of pure love. Demigods, mystics, aspirers of salvation, yogis, and pure devotees of Lord Krsna all sing constantly in His praise. He removes at once the miseries of all tortured souls who are scorched by the heat of their own sins and consequently burn incessantly within the great forest fire of the material world. Blessed is the Lord who is a vast ocean of divine generosity, the abode of the sweet nectars that are the holy names of Krsna.
 
2) The luster of the Lord’s fair body is brighter than a million brilliant mirrors of gold. Of such sweetness is the fragrance of His body that the aromatic lotus and parijata flowers humbly offer their prayers of worship. Millions of Cupids, shocked out of their pride, have swooned at His lotus feet, unable to bear the sight of His unparalleled beauty. His limbs are alive with the rasa moods of love that emerge and flow continually from His beautiful form. I sing with joy the unending glories of my sweet Lord, my golden Gaurasundara, the one and only divine abode of pure love.
 
3) The Lord expanded Himself as the five-fold potencies of Panca-tattva to expedite the free distribution of the holy names of Krsna. The holy names lead to Krsna-prema, the fifth goal of life. Fully equipped with transcendental limbs and divine weapons, and accompanied by His associates, the Lord descended on earth in all His opulence. Being the Supreme Lord Syamasundara Himself, He appeared as Gaurasundara, dancing and singing the holy names in ecstasy through the streets of Nadiya like an ordinary citizen. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Gaurasundara, my sweet Lord, the one and only divine abode of pure love.
 
4) The Lord could not bear to see His devotee Advaita Prabhu, Lord of Santipura, in misery over the pitiable condition of the Kali-yuga, which has been overtaken by irreligious philosophies. He therefore appeared in such a form to relieve the jiva from misery, award happiness to His devotee, and destroy the venom of Kali by profusely distributing the nectar of Krsna’s names. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Gaurasundara the beautiful, the one and only divine abode of pure love.
 
5) The Lord’s divine birth and pastimes took place at Sri Navadvipa, on the banks of the holy Ganga. He blessed the house of Srinivasa (Srivasa-angana), filling the hearts of all with the blissful transcendental mellows of the holy name. He dutifully respected and adored His mother, Sacidevi, and learned father, Sri Misra. To His wives, Sri Laksmipriya and Sri Visnupriya, He was the Lord of their lives. I sing with joy the unending glories of Gaurasundara the beautiful, my golden Lord, the one and only divine abode of pure love.
 
6) As the son of Sacidevi, the Lord enjoyed mischievous childhood pastimes with other boys. As a mere youth He acquired mastery over all scriptures. By His expertise in the current method of logic, He established the auspicious path of devotion for the welfare of all. On the banks of the Ganga in the company of His students, He vanquished the pride of the famous digvijayi pandita (conquering scholar). I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Gaurasundara, the Lord of beauty, the one and only abode of divine love.
 
7) The Lord’s childhood pastimes were most wonderful. He used to play merrily with rejected utensils and inauspicious animals like pups and poisonous snakes. He was once carried away by a thief who wanted to steal His clothes. He appeared before a tirtha vipra (a brahmana who constantly visits holy places) and blessed him with the remnants of His food. When He would cry in frustration, only the utterance of the names of Krsna would at once pacify Him. I sing with joy the unending glories of my Gaurasundara, my sweet Lord, the one and only divine abode of love.
 
8) The Lord would play wonderfully in a variety of ways with His boyhood friends while bathing in the waters of the Ganga. Sometimes in a jovial mood He would speak sweetly with the young girls as if teasing them. He would present complicated arguments and counter-arguments before His puzzled students and teachers. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Gaurasundara, my sweet Lord, the one and only divine abode of love.
 
9) The Lord was respected all over the land as the learned scholar Nimai Pandita. He would crush the ego of the proud Nyaya scholars of His time by His numerous ingenious and original arguments. After shattering their traditional theories, He would again establish them. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Gaurasundara, Lord of my heart, the one and only abode of divine love.
 
10) The Lord pointed out the defects of ornamental grammar in the verses spontaneously composed and recited in praise of the goddess Ganga by the most celebrated scholar Kesava Kasmiri. When the scholar tried to defend himself with many complicated arguments, even those arguments were defeated by the Lord. Although the Lord had humbled the pandita by checking his hasty intellect, the Lord nonetheless gave him all due respects and honor as a learned Sanskrit scholar. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Gaurasundara, my loving Lord, the one and only abode of divine love.
 
11) His wonderful elaborate explanations of the sutras, short but potent Sanskrit aphorisms, were extremely intricate. He thereby brought out the sutras’ natural meanings and diverse aspects. He proved that essentially the dhatus (the seven thousand root sounds of Sanskrit) in their fullest meaning express the energies of Krsna, the sole supporter of all the universes. Scholars were thereby totally perplexed and unable to assert their conclusions before the Lord. They could simply sit before Him in dumbfounded astonishment. I sing with joy the unending glories of my beloved Lord, my golden Gaurasundara, the one and only abode of divine love.
 
12) The Lord explained that the meanings and relationships of all sounds of speech (sphota-vada) have been revealed by the single action of Lord Krsna’s glance. The sphota-vada scholars weave their grammatical rules around sphota, but factually Krsna’s sweet will is the only basis for grammatical rules. The ultimate purpose of all subtle and gross energies and their interactions is to provide pleasure to the Supreme Personality of Godhead, Sri Krsna, as an aspect of His transcendental pastimes. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Lord, Gaurasundara the beautiful, the divine abode of pure love.
 
13) After the Lord’s return from Gaya, He could not resume His academic pursuits because of the continuous upsurge of divine love within His heart. His students, forever deprived of the opportunity to study under Nimai Pandita, condemned themselves as fallen and unfortunate.With intense imploring humility, they praised the Lord for His extraordinary genius as a teacher. Seeing the students thus, the Lord felt great compassion and blessed them. Overwhelmed with ecstatic love, He announced the first good tidings of Sri Krsna sankirtana: He led them in singing the glories of Lord Krsna, and they accompanied the chanting by clapping their hands. All directions became immersed in the sea of nectar that flowed from this ecstatic kirtana. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Lord, Gaurasundara the beautiful, the divine abode of pure love.
 
14) The Lord honors the Vedic religious principles and has taken shelter of His guru’s instruction to introduce Krsna kirtana. He is ever absorbed in His ecstatic dance of divine love, accompanied by musical instruments amid the singing and dancing of millions upon millions of devotees. He is the only savior of sinful and evil-minded demons who are responsible for the decline of religion and pious activities in the world. I sing with joy the unending glories of my loving master, Gaurasundara the beautiful, my golden Lord, the divine abode of pure love.
 
15) When the king of mlecchas (Chand Kazi) obstructed the performance of hari-nama, the Lord removed the fears of His devotees by directing a nocturnal sankirtana procession, decorated with hundreds of thousands of lamps and millions of voices singing the holy name. Dancing to the accompaniment of the sweet sound of the sri mrdanga, karatalas, and other musical instruments, the Lord humbled the ruling Kazi and ultimately won his heart. I sing with joy the unending glories of my loving Gaurasundara, my golden Lord, the divine abode of pure love.
 
(16) Amid the showering of sorrowful tears from millions of eyes, the Lord gladly cut off His beautiful long hair. As He accepted His danda, millions of voices were singing the glories of Krsna. Thereafter the people of all lands cried out desperately in grief when they saw Him in the dress of a sannyasi. I sing with joy the unending glories of my golden Lord, Gaurasundara the beautiful, the divine abode of pure love.
 
17) Being the Lord of all yogis, He wandered all over the Radha province (Bengal) as a devotee, thus sanctifying the land with His lotus feet. He was known as Krsna Caitanya and rescued all fallen conditioned souls with the names of Krsna. He ran all over the earth just like a madman, intoxicated with transcendental ecstatic loving emotions. His appearance resembled a mountain of gold. I sing with joy the unending glories of my loving Gaurasundara, my golden Lord, the divine abode of pure love.
 
18) The Lord’s association of devotees became even more prestigious by the presence of exalted personalities like Sri Gadadhara and Sri Nityananda. The Lord descended on earth to fulfill the desires of Advaita Acarya, the foremost of devotees. To please His mother, the Lord promised that He would not go far away from her but remain close by at Purusottama Ksetra (Jagannatha Puri). I sing with joy the unending glories of my loving Gaurasundara the beautiful, my golden Lord, the divine abode of pure love.