‘hari’ bole’ modera gaura elo

elo re gaurāńga-cānda preme elothelo
nitāi-adwaita-sańge godrume paśilo

sańkīrtana-rase mete nām bilāilo
nāmera hāṭe ese preme jagat bhāsāilo

godruma-bāsīr āj duḥkha dūre gelo
bhakta-vṛnda-sańge āsi’ hāṭa jāgāilo
 
nadīyā bhramite gorā elo nāmer hāṭe
gaura elo hāṭe, sańge nitāi elo hāṭe

nāce mātoyārā nitāi godrumera māṭhe
jagat mātāy nitāi premera mālasāṭe

(torā dekhe’ jā’ re)
adwaitādi bhakta-vṛnda nāce ghāṭe ghāṭe
palāya duranta kali poḍiyā bibhrāṭe

ki sukhe bhāsilo jīva gorācānder nāṭe
dekhiyā śuniyā pāṣaṇḍīr buka phāṭe

TRANSLATION

(Refrain) Our Lord Gaura came chanting "Hari! Hari!"

1) Lord Gauranga-canda came looking very disheveled, as if mad, due to ecstatic love of God, and along with Lord Nityananda and Advaita Acarya, He entered the land of Godruma.

2) Deeply absorbed in the intoxicating mellows of sankirtan, He distributed the holy name. Having come to the Marketplace of the Holy Name, He caused the whole universe to swim in ecstatic love of God.

3) Today all the miseries of the residents of Godruma-dvipa have gone far away, for Lord Gauranga, having come here along with all His devotees, caused the Marketplace of the Holy Name to appear here in Godruma.

4) Wandering all over the land of Nadiya, Lord Gaura came to the Marketplace of the Holy Name. Lord Gaura came to the Marketplace along with Nitai.

5) Maddened with ecstasy, Lord Nityananda dances in the fields of Godruma. Due to ecstatic love of God, He moves His powerful arms like a challenging wrestler and thus overwhelms the universe in ecstasy.

6) (Oh, all of you please go and see!) The Vaisnavas headed by Advaita Acarya are dancing along the banks of the Ganga from one bathing ghat to the next! At such a sight as this, the wicked personality Kali falls into great danger and thus runs for his life.

7) In what indescribable happiness did all living beings swim while Lord Gauracandra was dancing? By seeing and hearing of such pastimes, the hearts of the atheists break.

 