Aamaara samaana heena naahi e samsaare
Asthira ha'yechi podi' bhava paaraabaare

Kuladevi yogamaaya more krpaa kori'
AvaraNa sambaribe kabe visvodari

Sunechi aagame-vede mahimaa tomaara
Sri krsNa-vimukhe baandhi' koraao samsaara

Sri-krsna-saamukhya jaara bhaagya-krame haya
Taa're mukti diyaa karo' asoka abhaya

E daase janaani! kori' akaitava dayaa
Vrndaavane deho sthaana tumi yogamaaya
 
Tomaake langhiyaa kothaa jeeve krsna paaya
Krsna raasa prakatilo tomaara krpaaya
 
Tumi krsna-sahacari jagata-janani
Tumi dekhaaile more krsNa-cintaamaNi
 
Nishkapata ha'ye maataa caao mora paane
VaishNave visvaasa vrddhi ho'ka prati-kshaNe
 
VaishNava-caraNa binaa bhava-paaraabara
bhakativinoda naare hoibaare paara

-----------Meaning------------
1) The likes of such a lowly soul as me is not to be found 
anywhere else in this world. Thus I have become most agitated
due to falling into this vast ocean of material existence.
 
2) Oh Yogamaya! When will you show mercy to me by lifting up
the curtain of illusion with which you shroud the universe in
your external form of Mahamaya? You are known as Kuladevi, the
traditional worship-able Goddess of all Vaisnavas dynasties.
 
3) I have heard of your glories and activities from the Vedic 
literatures, You take all those souls who are averse to 
Krsna and bind them within the material world.
 
4) To that person whose good fortune gradually dawns and allow
him to again become favorably disposed to Krsna, you award him
with liberation and make him free from all grief and fear.
 
5) Oh my dear Mother! Showing your causeless mercy to your 
servant give me a place in Vrndavana, for you are Yogamaya 
Herself.
 
6) Without complying with you, no soul at any time can get 
Krsna, for the manifestation of Krsna's pastimes is all 
enacted only by your mercy.
 
7) You are the devoted follower of Lord Krsna, and you are 
the mother of the universe. You have shown to me the 
transcendental touchstone of Krsna consciousness.
 
8) My dear Mother, I sincerely wish that you will let my faith
in the Vaisnavas increase at every moment.
 
9) Without the lotus feet of the devotees of the Lord, 
Bhaktivinoda is not able to cross to the other side of this 
ocean of material existence.
------------------------------------------------------
Author: Srila Bhakti Vinod Thakur



