śuddha-bhakata-caraṇa-reṇu,
bhajana-anukūla
bhakata-sevā, parama-siddhi,
prema-latikāra mūla
 
mādhava-tithi, bhakti-jananī,
jetane pālana kori
kṛṣṇa-vasati, vasati boli',
parama ādare bori
 
gaur āmāra, je-saba sthāne,
koralo bhramaṇa rańge
se-saba sthāna, heribo āmi,
praṇayi-bhakata-sańge
 
mṛdańga-bādya, śunite mana,
abasara sadā jāce
gaura-bihita, kīrtana śuni',
ānande hṛdoya nāce
 
jugala-mūrti, dekhiyā mora,
parama-ānanda hoya
prasāda-sebā korite hoya,
sakala prapañca jaya
 
je-dina gṛhe, bhajana dekhi,
gṛhete goloka bhāya
caraṇa-sīdhu, dekhiyā gańgā,
sukha sā sīmā pāya
 
tulasī dekhi', jurāya prāṇa,
mādhava-toṣaṇī jāni'
gaura-priya, śāka-sevane,
jīvana sārthaka māni
 
bhakativinoda, kṛṣṇa-bhajane,
anakūla pāya jāhā
prati-dibase, parama-sukhe,
swīkāra koroye tāhā
 
...............Meaning..................

1) The dust of the lotus feet of pure devotees, enthusiastic 
   devotional service, and service to the pure devotees of 
   the highest order are the roots of the creeper of devotion.
 
2) The holy days like Ekadasi and Janmastami are the mother 
   of devotion for those devotees who respect them. Let the 
   holy places of Krsna's pastimes be my places of worship, 
   and bless me.
 
3) May I always visit all the holy places associated with 
   the lila of Lord Caitanya and His devotees.
 
4) When I hear the sound of the mrdanga in my heart I always 
   desire to join in kirtana; and when I hear the bonafide 
   songs describing Lord Caitanya's pastimes, my heart 
   dances in ecstasy.
 
5) Whenever I see the transcendental sri-vigrahas of 
   Radha-Krsna I am in bliss, for by taking Their Lordships' 
   prasada we can conquer over the material elements.
 
6) One day while performing devotional practices, I saw my 
   house transformed into Goloka Vrndavana. When I take the 
   caranamrta of the Deity, I see the holy Ganges waters 
   that come from the feet of Lord Visnu, and my bliss 
   knows no bounds.
 
7) By seeing the tulasi tree my heart feels joy and Lord 
   Madhava (Krsna) is also satisfied. When I eat the prasada 
   favored by Lord Caitanya it is a new life's experience. 
 
8) Bhaktivinoda concludes by saying: "Whosoever attains the 
stage of enthusiasm for these devotional practices will be 
supremely blissful wherever he may be."

.......................................
   