kali-kukkura kadana yadi cāo (he)
kali-yuga pāvana, kali-bhaya-nāśana,
śrī śacī-nandana gāo (he)               .. (Kali)

gadādhara-mādana, nitā’yera prāṇa-dhana,
advaitera prapūjita gorā
nimāñi viśvambhara, śrīnivāsa-īśvara,
bhakata-samūha-cita-corā                

nadīyā-śaśadhara, māyāpura-īśvara,
nāma-pravartana sura
gṛhijana-śikṣaka, nyāsikula-nāyaka,
mādhava rādhābhāva-pūra                 .. (Kali)

sārvabhauma-śodhana, gajapati-tāraṇa,
rāmānanda-poṣaṇa vīra
rūpānanda-vardhana, sanātana-pālana,
hari-dāsa-modana dhīra                 

vraja-rasa-bhāvana, duṣṭamata-śātana,
kapaṭī-vighātana kāma
śuddha bhakta-pālana, śuṣka-jñāna-tāḍana,
chala-bhakti-dūṣaṇa rāma                .. (Kali)

..............
1) If you want to be rid of the influence of the dog-like personality of kali, then just sing the glories of the beautiful Son of Mother Saci. He is the Savior of the kali-yuga, and He is the destroyer of all fear caused by the age of quarrel.

2) He maddens Sri Gadhadara with His name, He is the treasure of the life of Sri Nityananda Prabhu, and He is the most worshipable  object of Sri Advaita Acarya. He is affectionately named Nimai by His mother, due to being born under a Nim tree, and He has been named Visvambhara by His grandfather. He is the only Lord of Sri Srivasa, and He steals the hearts of all the assembled devotees.

3) Lord Caitanya is the moon over Nadia, the Lord of Sri Mayapura-dhama, and the divine propagator of His own name. He is the instructor of family men, and He is also the hero of those who are in the renounced order. He is the husband of the Goddess of Fortune, and He is over-flowing with the ecstatic moods and sentiments of Srimati Radharani.

4) Lord Caitanya is the corrector and purifier of Sarvabhauma Bhattacarya, and the deliverer of King Prataparudra, the source of nourishment of Srila Ramananda Raya, and He is a great hero. He increases the ecstasy of Srila Rupa Gosvami, He is the maintainer and protector of Srila Sanatana Gosvami, He gladdens Haridasa Thakura and He is very grave.

5) Lord Caitanya is the source of all the transcendental mellows of Vraja-dhama, He is the destroyer of all mischievous and wicked mentality, and He dissolves the mundane lust of the deceitful insincere souls by His causeless mercy. He maintains and protects His pure Vaisnava devotees, and He chastises dry speculative knowledge. He destroys pretentious and hypocritical devotion , and He is the reservoir of pleasure.
