(1)
kṛṣṇa hoite catur-mukha, hoy kṛṣṇa-sevonmukha,
brahmā hoite nāradera mati
nārada hoite vyāsa, madhwa kohe vyāsa-dāsa,
pūrṇaprajña padmanābha gati

(2)
nṛhari mādhava-vaḿśe, akṣobhya paramahaḿse,
śiṣya boli' ańgīkāra kore
akṣobhyera śiṣya jaya-tīrtha nāme paricaya,
tāra dāsye jñāna-sindhu tore

(3)
tāhā hoite dayānidhi, tāra dāsa vidyā-nidhi,
rājendra hoilo tāhā ha'te
tāhāra kińkora jaya-dharma nāme paricaya,
paramparā jāno bhālo mate

(4)
jayadharma-dāsye khyāti, śrī puruṣottama-jati,
tā ha'te brahmaṇya-tīrtha sūri
vyāsatīrtha tāra dāsa, lakṣmīpati vyāsa-dāsa,
tāhā ha'te mādhavendra purī

(5)
mādhavendra purī-bara, śiṣya-bara śrī-īśwara,
nityānanda, śrī-adwaita vibhu
īśwara-purīke dhanya, korilen śrī-caitanya,
jagad-guru gaura mahāprabhu

(6)
mahāprabhu śrī-caitanya, rādhā-kṛṣṇa nahe anya,
rūpānuga janera jīvana
viśwambhara priyańkara, śrī-swarūpa dāmodara,
śrī-goswāmī rūpa-sanātana

(7)
rūpa-priya mahājana, jīva, raghunātha hana,
tāra priya kavi kṛṣṇadāsa
kṛṣṇadāsa-priya-bara, narottama sevā-para,
jāra pada viśwanātha-āśa

(8)
viśwanātha-bhakta-sātha, baladeva jagannātha,
tāra priya śrī-bhaktivinoda
mahā-bhāgavata-bara, śrī-gaurakiśora-vara,
hari-bhajanete jā'ra moda

(9)
srī varsabhānavi-varā, sadā sevya-sevā-parā
tāhāra dayita-dāsa nāma

(10)
prabhupāda antaranga, sri-śvarupa-rupanuga
sri kesava bhakati prajnāna
gaudiya-vedānta-vettā, māyāvāda-tamohantā
gaurāvaṇi-pracārācāra dhāma

(11)
pracārilo gauravāni, bhaktivedānta swāmi
pūrāilo prabhupāder kāma
kesava-priya-mahājana, vāmana, nārāyaṇa hana,
gauravāṇi tā'der prāna-dhāma

(12)
ei saba harijana, gaurāngera nija-jana
tā'dera ucchiṣte mora kāma
guru paramparā, guru paramparā
guru paramparā, guru paramparā

1) In the beginning of creation the science of devotional service was received by the four-headed Brahma from the Supreme Lord Sri Krsna. Devarsi Narada's understanding of this divine science was obtained from Brahma. The great sage Krsna Dvaipayana Vyasa, who was empowered to compile the Vedic literatures, became a disciple of Devarsi Narada. Sripada Madhvacarya, the founder of the suddha-dvaita school of Vedanta philosophy, who visited Vyasadeva at Badarikasrama in the thirteenth century to learn from him Vedanta philosophy, calls himself a servant of Krsna Dvaipayana Vyasa. Purnaprajna Tirtha [Madhva] is the guru and sole refuge of Padmanabha Tirtha.

2) The two other principal disciples of Madhva are Nrhari Tirtha and Madhava Tirtha. Madhava Tirtha accepted the great paramhamsa Aksobhya Tirtha as a disciple. The principal disciple of Aksobhya Tirtha was known as Jayatirtha. Jayatirtha's service was for his disciple Jnanasindhu.

3) Dayanidhi received the science of devotional service from Jnanasindhu, and the servant of Dayanidhi was Vidyanidhi [Vidyadhiraja Tirtha]. Rajendra Tirtha became a disciple of Vidyadhiraja Tirtha. Rajendra Tirtha's servant was known as Jayadharma or Vijayadhvaja Tirtha. In this way you should properly understand this disciplic succession.

4) The great sannyasi Sri Purusottama Tirtha received his knowledge in the service of his guru, Vijayadhvaja Tirtha [Jayadharma]. The principal disciple of Purusottama Tirtha was Subrahmanya Tirtha. His servant was the great Vyasatirtha [Vyasa Raya]. Vyasatirtha's servant was Laksmipati Tirtha, whose disciple was Madhavendra Puri Gosvami.

5) The chief disciple of Madhavendra Puri was Isvara Puri, and two of his other disciples were the renowned incarnations of Godhead Sri Nityananda and Advaita Acarya. Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu, the spiritual preceptor of all the worlds made Isvari Puri greatly fortunate by accepting him as His spiritual master.

6) Mahaprabhu Sri Caitanya is non different from Sri Sri Radha and Krsna and is the very life of those Vaisnavas who follow Sri Rupa Gosvami. Sri Svarupa Damodara Gosvami, Rupa Gosvami, and Sanatana Gosvami were the givers of great happiness to Visvambhara [Sri Caitanya].

7) The great souls Jiva Gosvami and Raghunatha Dasa Gosvami became very dear to Rupa Gosvami. Jiva Gosvami was a disciple of Rupa Gosvami, and Raghunatha Dasa Gosvami, a disciple of Advaita Acarya's disciple Yadunandana Acarya, was accepted by Rupa and Sanatana as their third brother. Raghunatha dasa Gosvami's beloved student was Krsnadasa Kaviraja Gosvami. Krsnadasa Kaviraja was an intimate friend of Lokanatha Gosvami. They lived together in Vrndavana and always discussed the topics of Krsna with one another. Lokanatha Gosvami, a disciple of Gadadhara Pandita, had only one disciple, whose name was Narottama Dasa. Narottama Dasa was always engaged in the service of his guru, and he also engaged himself in the service of his guru's intimate friend. Thus he became very dear to Krsnadasa Kaviraja Gosvami. To serve I the feet of Narottama Dasa Thakura was the only desire of Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura, who was the fourth acarya in disciplic succession from Narottama Dasa.

8) Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura was the siksa-guru [instructing spiritual master] of Baladeva Vidyabhusana, to whom he taught the precepts of Srimad-Bhagavatam. Jagannatha Dasa Babaji was a very prominent acarya after Sri Baladeva Vidyabhusana and was the beloved siksa-guru of Sri Bhaktivinoda Thakura. Bhaktivinoda Thakura's intimate friend and associate was the eminent maha-bhagavata Sri Gaurakisora Dasa Babaji, whose sole joy was found in hari-bhajana.

9) The most distinguished Sri Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura, whose initiated name was Sri Varshabhanavi Dayita Dasa, was always engaged in divine service to Hari, Guru and Vaishnava. An internal and intimate disciple of Prabhupada following in the line of Svarupa Damodara and Rupa Goswami was Sri Bhakti Prajnana Kesava Gosvami.

Having full knowledge of Vedanta philosophy according to the Gaudiya Sampradaya, Srila Kesava Maharaja annihilated the darkness of all mayavada arguments. He has served Navadvipa Dhama so much, and his life is an example for both practicing and preaching Mahaprabhu's message.

10) His foremost disciple-preacher was Sri Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, who has spread the message ofSri Caitanya Mahaprabhu throughout the world and is thus a reservoir of mercy and compassion for all fallen souls.

Most dear to Sri Kesava Goswami were the saintly personalities Sri Vamana Goswami and Sri Narayana Goswami, whose life and soul are the teachings of Mahaprabhu.

11) Out of Prabhupada's countless disciples, Sri Bhakti Prajnana Kesava Goswami was his topmost. And out of countless disciples of Sri Bhakti Prajnana Kesava Goswami, one of the most prominent is Sri Bhaktivedanta Narayana Maharaja.

12) It is my desire to honour the remnants - their mahaprasada and their instructions - from the lotus mouths of all these personal associates of Sri Krishna and Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu.

All glories to our guru parampara! All glories to our guru parampara.

