(1)
kabe ha'be heno dasa mor
tyaji' jada asa, bividha bandhana,
chadibo samsar ghor

(2)
vrndāvanā bhede, navadvipa-dhāme,
bāndhibo kutira khāni
sacira nandana-carana-āsraya
koribo sambandha māni'

(3)
jāhnavi-puline, cinmoy-kānane,
basiyā vijana-sthale
krsna-nāmāmrta, nirantara pibo,
dākibo 'gaurānga' bo'le

(4)
hā gaura-nitāi, tora du'ti bhāi,
patita-janera bandhu
adhama patita, āmi he durjana,
hao more krpā sindhu

(5)
kāndite kāndite, sola-krosa-dhāma,
jāhnavi ubhaya kule
bhramite bhramite, kabhu bhāgya-phale,
dekhi kuchu taru-mule

(6)
hā hā manohara, ki dekhinu āmi,
boliyā murchita ha'bo
samvit pāiyā, kāndibo gopane,
smari duhu krpā-lava

TRANSLATION

1) When, oh when will such a condition be mine? Renouncing all of my mundane desires which are giving rise to various types of bondage, I will give up this dark, ghastly material existence.

2) I will build my small hut at Navadvipa-dhama, seeing the land as being non-different from Vrndavana-dhama. There I will finally establish my relationship under the shelter of the lotus feet of the Son of Mother Saci.

3) Living in a solitary place in a spiritually conscious forest on the banks of the Ganga, I will incessantly drink the pure nectar of Krsna's name, and I will loudly shout the name of Gauranga thus:

4) "Oh Gaura-Nitai! You two Brothers are the only true friend of all the fallen souls! I am the lowest of the low, most fallen and wicked-minded, so kindly bestow Your ocean of mercy upon me.

5) Thus repeatedly sobbing and calling out, I will roam all over the abode of 32 square miles, sometimes on one bank of the Ganga and sometime on the other. And sometimes, while wandering about, if I ever receive a drop of good fortune, I may suddenly glance over at the base of a tree (and behold some vision there…)

6) I will cry out: "Ha Ha, how wonderful! What amazing thing have I seen now?!!", and I will faint senseless on the spot. Regaining consciousness later, I will hide and weep secretly, remembering that all this ecstasy is due to receiving just a tiny speck of Sri Sri Gaura-Nitai's mercy.
 