jaya jaya harinām,  cidānandāmṛta-dhām,
para-tattva akṣara-ākār
nija-jane kṛpā kori’,  nāma-rūpe avatari’,
jīve doyā korile apār

jaya `hari’, `kṛṣṇa’, `rām’,  jaga-jana-suviśrām,
sarva-jana-mānasa-rañjana
muni-vṛnda nirantar,  je nāmera samādar,
kori’ gāy bhoriyā vadana

ohe kṛṣṇa-nāmākṣar,  tumi sarva-śakti-dhar,
jīvera kalyāna-vitaraṇe
tomā vinā bhava-sindhu,  uddhārite nāhi bandhu,
āsiyācho jīva-uddhāraṇe

āche tāpa jīve jata,  tumi saba koro hata,
helāya tomāre eka-bār
ḍāke jadi kono jan,  ho’ye dīn akiñcan,
nāhi dekhi’ anya pratikār

tava svalpa-sphūrti pāy,  ugra-tāpa dūre jāy,
lińga-bhańga hoy anāyāse
bhakativinoda koy,  jaya harināma jay,
paḍe’ thāki tuwā pada-āśe

TRANSLATION

1) All glories, all glories to the holy name, the abode of immortal transcendental bliss. The Supreme Absolute Truth, who possesses an eternal form, has descended in the form of the holy name. He shows mercy to His devotees and shows boundless compassion and kindness to all fallen souls.

2) All glories to the Supreme Personality of Godhead who is called by different names such as Hari, Krsna and Rama. He is the auspicious resting place of all living entities within the universe, and He delights the minds of all souls. Great sages, honoring His holy name, constantly sing that holy name, filling their mouths with the sound.

3) O eternal holy name of Krishna, You possess all powers and bestow auspiciousness upon the living beings. Without You there is no other friend to deliver us from the ocean of material existence. You have come for the deliverance of all fallen souls.

4) For all souls within this world there is much misery and sorrow. O Harinam, if someone calls upon You just one time, feeling himself very meek and lowly, possessing nothing and seeing no other remedy for his relief, You then easily destroy all his sorrows.

5) If one simply obtains a slight reflection or glimmer of You, then all sorts of terrible miseries disappear. Thakura Bhaktivinoda says, “All glories, all glories to the holy name of Lord Hari! O Harinam, I perpetually fall at Your lotus feet.”