1
acyutam keśavam rāma nārāyaṇam
kṛṣṇa dāmodaram vāsudevam harim
srīdharam mādhavam gopikā vallabham
jānakī nāyakam rāmachandram bhaje

2
acyutam keśavam satya bhāmādhavam
mādhavam srīdharam rādhikā-rādhitam
indirā mandiram cetasā sundaram
devakī nandanam nandanam samdadhe

3
viṣṇave jiṣṇave śankhiṇe cakriṇe
rukmiṇī rāgiṇe jānakī jānaye
vallavī vallabhā yārcitā yātmane
kamsa vidhvamsine vamśine te namah

4
kṛṣṇa govinda he rāma nārāyaṇa
srīpate vāsu devārjit srīnidhe
acyutā-nanta he mādhava adhokṣaja
dwarikā nāyaka, draupadī rakṣaka

5
rākṣasa kṣobita sītayā śobhito
danḍakāraṇya bhū puṇyatā kāraṇa
lakṣmaṇa-nānvito vānarai sevito
agastya sampūjito rāghavah pātu mām 

6
dhenukāriṣţako niṣta kṛd veśiṇām
keṣīha kamsa hṛd vamśikā vādakah
putanā gopakah surajā khelano
bāla gopālakah pātu mām sarvada

7
vidyu da-dyotavān prasphura dvāsasam
prāvṛdam bodhavat prollasad vigraham
vanyayā mālayā śobhito-rastalam
lohitānghri dvayam vārijākṣham bhaje

8
kuncitai kuntalai brāja mānānanam
ratna maulim lasat kunḍalam gandayo
hāra keyurakam kankaṇa projvalam
kinkiṇi manjulam syāmalam tam bhaje

9
acyuta-syashtakam ya pathet ishtadam
premada prathy aham purusha saspruham
vruttata sundaram kartru visvambharam
tasya vasyo harim jayate satvaram (3)

Meaning:
1) I sing praise of Sri Krishna who is Acyuta (infallible), also known as Keshav, Raam, Narayan, Damodara, Vasudeva, Hari, Shridhara (possessing Lakshmi), Madhava, Gopikavallabha (Dearest of Gopika), and Janakinayaka (Lord of Janaki or Sita).

2) I offer a salute with my hands together to Achyuta, known as Keshav, the consort of Satyabhama, Who is known as Madhav and Shridhar, Who is longed-for by Radhika, Who is like a temple of Lakshmi (Indira), Who is beautiful at heart, Who is the son of Devaki, and Who is the Dear-One of all.

3) Salutations for Vishnu, Who conquers everyone, Who holds a conch-shell and a discus, Who is the affectionate of Rukmini (Krishna), Who is the consort of only Janaki (Raam), Who is the Dear-One of cowherdesses, Who is offered [in sacrifices], Who is the Atman, Who is the destroyer of Kansa, and Who plays the flute (Krishna).

4) O Krishna! O Govinda! O Raam! O Narayan! O Shripati! O Vasudeva, Who attained the Lakshmi! O Achyuta, Who is immeasurable! O Madhav! O Adhokshaja! O Leader of Dvarika! O the protector of Draupadi.

5) Raghav, Who upsetted the demons, Who adorned Sita, Who is the cause of purification of the forest called Dandaka, Who was accompanied by Lakshman, Who was served by monkeys, and Who was revered by Agastya, save me.

6) Baby Gopal (Krishna), Who destroyed the disguised Dhenuka and Arishtak demons, Who slayed Keshi, Who killed Kansa, Who plays the flute, and Who got angry on Putana², save me always.

7) I sing praise of the Lotus-Eyed Lord, Who is adorned by a shiny lightening like yellow robe, Whose body is resplending like a cloud of the rainy-season, Who is adorned by a forest-garland at His chest, and Who has two feet of copper-red color.

8) I sing praise of that Shyam, Whose face is adorned by falling locks of curly tresses, Who has jewels are forehead, Who has shiny earrings on the cheeks, Who is adorned with a garland of the Keyur flower, Who has a shiny bracelet, and Who has a melodious anklet.

9) Any one who recites this prayer with sraddha to that Acyuta, will get the topmost devotion and get the ultimate goal of attaining Him.
