			Śrī Gadādharāṣṭakam

1.	sva bhakti-yoga-lāsināṁ sadā vraje vihāriṇaṁ 
	hari-priyā-gaṇāgragaṁ śacīsuta-priyeśvaram 
	sarādha-kṛṣṇa-sevana-prakāśakaṁ mahāśayaṁ
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum

2.	navojjvalādi-bhāvanā-vidhāna-karma-pāragaṁ
 	vicitra-gaura-bhakti-sindhu-raṅga-bhaṅga-lāsinam
	surāga-mārga-darśakaṁ vrajādi-vāsa-dāyakaṁ
	bhajāmy aham gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum

3. 	sacīsutāṅghri-sāra-bhakta-vṛnda-vandya-gauravaṁ
	gaura-bhāva-citta-padma-madhya-kṛṣṇa-vallabham
	mukunda-gaura-rūpiṇaṁ svabhāva-dharma-dāyakaṁ 
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum

4. 	nikuñja-sevanādika-prakāśanaika-kāraṇaṁ
	sadā sakhī-rati-pradaṁ mahā-rasa-svarūpakam 
	sadāśritāṅghri-paṅkajaṁ saṛīri-sad-guruṁ varaṁ
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum

5. 	mahāprabhor mahā-rasa-prakāśanāṅkuraṁ priyaṁ 
	sadā mahā-rasāṅkura-prakāśanādi-vāsanam
	mahāprabhor vrajāṅganādi-bhāva-moda-kārakaṁ 
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum

6. 	dvijendra-vṛnda-vandya-pāda-yugma-bhakti-vardhakaṁ 
	nijeśu rādhikātmatā-vapuḥ-prakāśanāgraham
	aśeśa-bhakti-śāstra-śikṣayojjvalāmṛta-pradaṁ
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum  

7.	mudā nija-priyādika-svapāda-padma-sindhubhir
	mahā-rasārṇavāmṛta-pradeṣṭa-gaura-bhaktidam
	sadāṣṭa-sattvikānvitaṁ nijeṣṭa-bhakti-dāyakaṁ
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supanditaṁ guruṁ prabhum

8.	yadīya-rīti-rāga-raṅga-bhaṅga-digdha-mānaso 
	naro ’pi yati tūrṇam eva nārya-bhāva-bhājanam
	tam ujjvalākta-cittam etu citta-matta-śatpado
	bhajāmy ahaṁ gadādharaṁ supaṇḍitaṁ guruṁ prabhum

9.	mahā-rasāmṛta-pradaṁ sadā gadādharāsṭakaṁ 
	paṭhet tu yaḥ subhaktito vrajāṅgaṇa-gaṇotsavam
	sacī-tanuja-pāda-padma-bhakti-ratna-yogyatāṁ 
	labheta rādhikā-gadādharāṅghri-padma-sevayā

1. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu, who appears very splendid, engaged in the Lord’s devotional service. He always performs pastimes in Vraja, where he is very prominent among the gopīs, who are very dear to Lord Hari. Lord Chaitanya, the Son of Saci, is the dear Lord of Gadadhar Prabhu, who is preaching the service of Radha and Krishna.

2. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu. He is expertly absorbed in meditation on the nine rasas of devotional service, beginning with conjugal love, and he dances in the waves of the amazing ocean of devotional service to Lord Chaitanya. He preaches the path of spontaneous devotional service, and he bestows residence in the holy tīrthas such as Vraja etc.

3. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu. Those who are exclusively devoted to the lotus feet of Lord Chaitanya, the Son of Sachi-devi, offer respectful obeisances to him and treat him with great importance. He is very dear to Lord Krishna, who is seated in the middle of the lotus flower that is his heart, assuming his golden form of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. He preaches that Lord Mukunda has assumed the form of Lord Chaitanya, and he returns the living entities to their constitutional position as servants of the Lord.

4. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu. It is only because of him that the truth of the exalted devotional service performed by the intimate associates of Krishna in the forests and groves of Vrindavan has been revealed. He is preaching the ecstatic love attained by the gopīs, and he is indeed a personification of the mellows of devotional service. The saintly devotees take shelter of his lotus feet, and he teaches the truth of spiritual life to the living entities.

5. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu. He is very dear to Lord Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, and it is as if he had manifestated from the Lord’s ecstatic love. He is always adorned with the garments of ecstatic love of Godhead, and he delights Lord Chaitanya Mahaprabhu by arousing in the Lord the ecstatic emotional love experienced by the gopīs of Vraja.

6. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu, who expands the mellows of devotional service and whose lotus feet are worshiped by the leaders of the brāhmanas. Among his confidential associates he reveals his actual form as Srimati Radharani. He distributes the nectar of the ecstatic mellow of the gopīs conjugal love, strictly following the instructions of all the devotional scriptures.

7. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu. With delight he is giving the devotional service of Lord Chaitanya, which reveals the nectarean ocean of the most exalted mellows of devotional service, along with the nectar flowing from the lotus feet of the gopīs, headed by Srimati Radharani, who is most dear to Krishna. Gadadhar Prabhu is decorated with the eight transcendental ecstatic symptoms of sattvika- bhāva, and he is distributing devotional service to his worshipable Lord Krishna.

8. I worship the greatly learned and exalted spiritual master, Gadadhar Prabhu. If the mind of even a conditioned soul becomes anointed with the colorful waves of spontaneous devotional service as delineated by Gadadhar Prabhu, he quickly attains the highest level of devotional service. He becomes like a maddened bumblebee whose mind is anointed with the mellow of conjugal love.

9. These eight verses glorifying Gadadhara Prabhu distribute the nectar of the most exalted mellow of devotional service, and they are like a festival for the gopīs of Vraja. If one regularly reads these verses and serves the lotus feet of Gadadhar Prabhu, who is an incarnation of Srimati Radharani, then he will become qualified to attain the jewel of pure devotional service at the lotus feet of Lord Chaitanya, the son of Sachi Devi.


 


