BHAJA GOVINDAM
1
bhaja govindam bhaja govindam 
govindam bhaja muudhamate
samprāpte sannihite kāle
nahi nahi rakshati dukrijn karane

Worship Govinda, Worship Govinda, Worship Govinda. Oh fool! Rules of Grammar will not save you at the time of your death.

2
mudha jahiihi dhanā gama trishhnām
kuru sadbuddhim manasi vitrishhnām
yallabhase nijakarmo pāttam
vittam tena vinodaya chittam

Oh fool! Give up your thirst to amass wealth, devote your mind to thoughts to the Real. Be content with what comes through actions already performed in the past.

3
nārii stanabhara nābhii desham
drishhtvā māgā mohā vesham
etan māmsāvasādi vikāram
manasi vichintaya vāram vāram

Do not get drowned in delusion by going wild with passions and lust by seeing a woman's navel and chest. Bodies are flesh, fat and blood. Do not fail to remember this again and again in your mind.
 
4
nalinii dalagata jalamati taralam
tadvaj jiivitam atishaya chapalam
viddhi vyādhyabhi māna grastam
lokam shokahatam cha samastam

Uncertain is the life of man as rain drops on a lotus leaf. Know that the whole world remains a prey to disease, ego and grief.
 
5
yāvad vitto pārjana saktah
stāvan nija pari vāro raktah
pashchāj jiivati jarjara dehe
vārtām koapi na prichchhati gehe

So long as a man is fit and able to support his family, see the affection all those around him show. But no one at home cares to even have a word with him when his body totters due to old age.

6
yāvat pavano nivasati dehe
tāvat prichchhati kushalam gehe
gatavati vāyau dehāpāye
bhāryā bibhyati tasmin kāye

When one is alive, his family members enquire kindly about his welfare. But when the soul departs from the body, even his wife runs away in fear of the corpse.

7
bālas tāva tkriidā saktah
taruna stāvat tarunii saktah
vriddha stāvach chintāsaktah
pare brahmani koapi na saktah

Childhood is lost in play. Youth is lost by attachment to woman. Old age passes away by thinking over many past things. Alas! hardly is there anyone who yearns to be lost in Parabrahman.

8
kāte kāntā kaste putrah
samsāro ayamatiiva vichitrah
kasya tvamkah kuta āyātah
tattvam chintaya tadiha bhrātah

Who is your wife? Who is your son? Strange is this samsara. Of whom are you? Where have you come from? Brother, ponder over these truths.

9
satsangatve nis sangatvam
nis sangatve nir mohatvam
nir mohatve nishchala tattvam
nishcala tattve jiivan muktih

From Satsanga comes non-attachment, from non-attachment comes freedom from delusion, which leads to self-settledness. From self-settledness comes Jivan Mukti.

10
vayasigate kah kāma vikārah
shushhke niire kah kāsārah
kshiine vitte kah parivārah
gnyāte tattve kah samsārah

What good is lust when youth has fled? What use is a lake which has no water? Where are the relatives when wealth is gone? Where is samsara when the Truth is known?

11
mā kuru dhana jana yauvana garvam
harati nimeshhāt kālah sarvam
māyā mayamidam akhilaM hitvā
brahma padam tvam pravisha viditvā

Do not boast of wealth, friends, and youth. Each one of these are destroyed within a minute. Free yourself from the illusion of the world of Maya and attain the timeless Truth.

12
dinayā minyau sāyam prātah
shishirava santau punarā yātah
kālah kriidati gachchhat yāyuh
tadapi na mujncaty āshāvāyuh

Daylight and darkness, dusk and dawn, winter and springtime come and go. Time plays and life ebbs away. But the storm of desire never leaves.

13 (this can be skipped)
dvādasha majnjari kābhira sheshhah
kathito vaiyā karanas yaishhah
upadesho bhuudvid yānipunaih
shriimach chhankara bhagavach chharanarih

This bouquet of twelve verses was imparted to a grammarian by the all-knowing Shankara, adored as the bhagavadpada.

14
kāte kāntā dhana-gata chintā
vātula kim-tava nāsti niyantā
trijagati sajjana samgati raikā
bhavati bhavār-nava tarane naukā

Oh mad man! Why this engrossment in thoughts of wealth? Is there no one to guide you? There is only one thing in three worlds that can save you from the ocean from samsara. Get into that boat of sat-sangha quickly.

15
jatilo mundii lujnchhita keshah
kāshhāyāmbara bahukrita veshhah
pashyannapi-cana pashyati muudhah
udarani-mittam bahukrita veshhah

There are few who go with matted locks, some who have shaven heads, some whose hairs have been plucked out, some are clothed in saffron, yet others in other colors - all these should not be for a livelihood. Seeing truth revealed before them, still some foolish do not see it.
 
16
angam galitam palitam mundam
dashanavi hiinam jātam tundam
vriddho yāti grihiitvā dandam
tadapi na mujncaty āshāpindam

Strength has left the old man's body; his head has become bald, his gums toothless and leaning on crutches. Even then the attachment is strong and he clings firmly to fruitless hope.
 
17
agre vahnih prishhthe bhānuh
rātrau chubukasam arpita jānuh
karatala bhiksha starutala vāsah
tadapi na mujncaty āshā-pāshah

Behold there lies the man who sits warming up his body with the fire in front and the sun at the back; at night he curls up the body to keep out of the cold; he eats his beggar's food from the bowl of his hand and sleeps beneath the tree. Still in his heart, he is a wretched puppet at the hands of passions.

18
kurute gangā sāgara gamanam
vratapari pālanam athavā dānam
gyānavi hinah sarvama tena
muktim na bhajati janmashatena

One may go to the Ganga, observe fasts, and give away riches in charity! Yet, devoid of jnana, nothing can give mukthi even at the end of a hundred births.

19
sura mandira taru muula nivāsah
shayyā bhuutalam ajinam vāsah
sarva parigraha bhoga tyāgah
kasya sukham na karoti virāgah

Take your residence in a temple or below a tree, wear the deerskin for the dress, and sleep with mother earth as your bed. Give up all attachments and renounce all comforts. Blessed with such vairagya, could any fail to be content?

20
yogara-tovā bhogara-tovā
sangarato vā sangaviihinah
yasya brahmani ramate chittam
nandati nandati nandatyeva

One may take delight in yoga or bhoga, may have attachment or detachment. But only he whose mind steadily delights in Brahman enjoys bliss, no one else.

21
bhagavad giitā kijnchida dhiitā
gangā jalalava kanikā piitā
sakridapi yena murāri samarchā
kriyate tasya yamena-na charchā

Let a man read but a little from the Gita, drink just a drop of water from the Ganga, worship Murari just once. He then will have no altercation with Yama.

22
punarapi jananam punarapi maraNam
punarapi jananii jathare shayanam
iha samsāre bahudus-tāre
kripayā apāre pāhi murāre

Born again, death again, birth again to stay in the mother's womb ! It is indeed hard to cross this boundless ocean of samsara. Oh Murari ! Redeem me through Thy mercy.

23
rathyā charpata virachita kanthah
punyā punya vivarjita panthah
yogii yogani yojita chitto
ramate bālon mattava deva

There is no shortage of clothing for a monk so long as there are rags cast off the road. Freed from vice and virtue, onward he wanders. One who lives in communion with God enjoys bliss, pure and uncontaminated, like a child and as someone intoxicated.

24
kastvam koaham kuta āyātah
kā me jananii ko-me tātah
iti pari-bhāvaya sarvama-sāram
vishvam tyaktvā svapna vichāram

Who are you? Who am I? From where do I come? Who is my mother, who is my father? Ponder thus, look at everything as essenceless and give up the world as an idle dream.

25
tvayi mayi chānya traiko vishhnuh
vyartham kupyasi mayyasa hishhnuh
bhava samachittah sarvatra-tvam
vājnchha-syachirād-yadi vishhnutvam

In me, in you and in everything, none but the same Vishnu dwells. Your anger and impatience is meaningless. If you wish to attain the quality of Vishnu soon, have Sama Bhāva always.

26
shatrau mitre putre bandhau
mā kuru yatnam vigraha sandhau
sarva sminnapi pashyāt mānam
sarvatrot srija bhedā gnyānam

Do not waste your efforts to win the love of or to fight against friend and foe, children and relatives. See yourself in everyone and give up all feelings of duality completely.

27
kāmam krodham lobham moham
tyaktvā (a)tmānam bhāvaya ko aham
ātma gnyāna vihiinā muudhāh
te pachyante narakani guudhāh

Give up lust, anger, infatuation, and greed. Ponder over your real nature. Fools are they who are blind to the Self. Cast into hell they suffer there endlessly.

28
geyam giitā nāma sahasram
dhyeyam shrii-pati ruupama-jasram
neyam sajjana sange chittam
deyam diinaja-nāya cha vittam

Regularly recite from the Gita, meditate on Vishnu in your heart, and chant His thousand glories. Take delight to be with the noble and the holy. Distribute your wealth in charity to the poor and the needy.

29
sukhatah kriyate rāmā bhogah
pashchād dhanta shariire rogah
yadyapi loke maranam sharanam
tadapi na mujnchati pāpā charanam

He who yields to lust for pleasure leaves his body a prey to disease. Though death brings an end to everything, man does not gives up the sinful path.

30
artham anartham bhāvaya nityam
nāsti-tatah sukha leshah satyam
putrādapi dhana bhājām bhiitih
sarvatr-aishhā vihiā riitih

Wealth is not welfare, truly there is no joy in it. Reflect thus at all times. A rich man fears even his own son. This is the way of wealth everywhere.

31
prānā yāmam pratyā hāram
nityā nitya viveka vichāram
jāpya sameta samādhivi dhānam
kurvava dhānam mahadava dhānam

Regulate the pranas, remain unaffected by external influences and discriminate between the real and the fleeting. Chant the holy name of God and silence the turbulent mind. Perform these with care, with extreme care.

32
guru-charanām-buja nirbhara bhakatah
samsārā-dachi rādbhava muktah
sendriya-mānasa niyamā-devam
drakshyasi nija hridayastham devam

Oh devotee of the lotus feet of the Guru! May thou be soon free from Samsara. Through disciplined senses and controlled mind, thou shalt come to experience the indwelling Lord of your heart!

33
muudhah kashchana vaiyā karano
dukrijn karanādh yayana dhurinah
shriimach chhamkara bhagavach chhishhyai
bodhita āsich chhodhita karanah

Thus was a silly grammarian lost in rules cleansed of his narrow vision and shown the Light by Shankara's apostles.

34
bhaja govindam bhaja govindam
govindam bhaja muudhamate
nāma smaranā danyamu pāyam
nahi pashyāmo bhavatarane

Worship Govinda, worship Govinda, worship Govinda, Oh fool! Other than chanting the Lord's names, there is no other way to cross the life's ocean.
